Your full name, please, sir, and a little about
your personal background, your early years, and
how you came to be associated with Mitchell
Energy. Okay, it's Bernard F. Clark, although
I've gone by the nickname Bud, with two Ds, for some
reason, ever since high school. I was born and grew
up in New York City, and went to Fordham
Preparatory School, because I had a scholarship
for it, and then to Fordham University, where I
studied chemistry, and so I was able to get a loan
and a grant and work at the school. I joined the ROTC
at the time, this is 1938 to 1942,
mainly to get the monthly check in the junior year
bonanza to help pay for the schooling. Like some
people in the Persian Gulf are finding out now, if
you take the money, you go. In my case, it paid. So
since I had chemistry, I was switched into the
chemical warfare service from Coast Artillery,
which was the ROTC group at Edgewater. And then
when I got down to Aberdeen, which is the Army
chemical depot, they needed three or four people
in the Air Corps. So fortunately, I got switched to
that, which I then headed south at MacDill Field
and spent an amazing majority of my time at
Hartsdale. And the last part at Edmund Field was
testing
weapons, chemical weapons. You were at Barksdale
during the war? From 52 to 42 to 44. Is that right?
Yeah. The strange thing is, Ken Patterson, who was
in charge of the gas sales, was the commanding
officer of Barksdale. And he retired now working
for us. But you said some odd grouping gets into
place. Yeah, it really does. So anyhow, I went back
up to New York to get a job and called on GE,
Selenese, and Pan American Petroleum and
Transport, which is now called Amacom, or Wesley,
one part of Amacom. So at 42nd Street, I got a job in
Texas City, Texas. That's where the lab was. And I
came down and saw that there was no way I could get
anywhere without a PhD. Things had changed too
much during the war. So I heard about the Harvard
Business School from my wife and applied and was
accepted. And then we went up there from 47 to 49.
You missed the big explosion down in Texas City?
No. You were there? We were there. My wife was
working at Carbide, and I was at Pan Am. And the
explosion was down at the Harvard, which was about
three miles away. Shocking glass where she was.
She was over at the next plant down. But at the
refinery. Well, the main thing there was a good
big, I guess, 40-foot section of pipe that looked
like a javelin throwhead. So I had to stick it in
there. And that one missed the main crew line by,
say, six feet. I don't know. People were
exaggerating at the time like that. So that was in
1947. And we went to Harvard in September. Were you
sort of thinking career change or direction?
Well, actually, I wrote this up. And I wrote to some
of the men and had articles about them and asked
them whether a combination of a business degree
with a technical degree was a good idea. And they
looked like, yes. So it was more of that. Because
that was rather rare at that time, wasn't it? Well,
also, I saw petrochemicals being a hell of a big
deal. I read everything I could on there. So when I
came out of Harvard, actually, I increased my
salary $15 a month by getting an MBA. I went to J.T.
Baker Chemical Company, which is in the city area
of Dick Chemical, because I wanted to get the
chemical side. I had the petroleum side of New
Orleans. Then I watched from New Orleans. So when
Amoco started up with Standard of Indiana, of
course, started up another sub down in New
Orleans, we came down here. And then when they
decided to do away with it five years later, I sent a
resume to Boston to the school, and one over here to
Houston to one of the alumni. And as a result, I got
Conoco to come over, and George's partner,
Marilyn Christian, had to come over. And I had a
meeting with him, which was not the, what one might
say, the normal interview. The gist of it was that,
I'm telling my wife, I was a bit crazy. She said,
well, you'll fit. Actually, it was the first. What
year was this? 1956. I'll flip that over any time
you want me to. Well, flip it over.
OK, wait a moment. I said, OK, so we came here. What
year was that again? 1956. In 1956. Yeah, so I went
from general manager to vice president, to
executive vice president, to vice chairman, and I
guess to ex-vice chairman at some point. Now, when
you came in 56, could you sort of describe the
status of Mitchell, Henry, or CMM, and what was
going on, where you were doing your primary work? I
would say there might be something. The
controversy with George, he is my version of it,
because his version is always different. But
there's about 225 employees, 225 to 250. And there
was no order, no organization.
Even to this day, there is a certain, if you look at
the table of organization, or create one, I had
some consultants sit over 12 years ago. And I said,
George, here's your table organization. And they
drew five circles and put George in the middle. And
I said, everybody reports you. So it was pretty
much that way, except the circles got twisted up.
So I imagine that was one of the purposes of me over
here as a non-accountant. And I don't need a
chemist, although I would understand technical
matters. It was more or less administration.
George at that time was handling the finance,
because mainly it was natural gas pipeline was
advancing money to keep you on the well. And he did
banking with Dr. Vance, who was over in Bank
Southwest. And the, but as time went on, I took over
the bank in about 59. So you already came into the
business sector. You really weren't doing much in
terms of... Oh, no. There's been one thing, any
time I get an operations course and they're like,
so one time he'll tell me, you know, stay out. He'll
say, have an operations course. And I can roam the
rest of it. Cross over, get in the foot. I
appreciate it. So that's pretty much the way it's
been. Up until 76 and then... We set up a
refinancing and turned it over to Tony and turned
it over to Smith. And it's pretty much on a routine.
Well, they won't say it. They won't appreciate it.
I thought it was . So it's not routine. Smith keeps
coming up with new games. But compared to the way we
had to beg, borrow, and steal money in the old days,
it's routine. It's a different world. Most of the
activity Yeah. Wise County,
Palacios, Vienna. Now, when did real estate begin
to iterate into the picture? Well, on the side,
Johnny Mitchell had made friends with Norman
Dobbins, who actually and his wife were interior
decorators, and Norman had a flair for design, so
he talked He had started the home building
company. Johnny was coming into it. So Merlin and
George, they took half, and Norman had half. So we
were sort of in the home building business. And a
leftover of that is Imperial Valley, or the
Esplanade, was the commercial that was left after
the subdivision was built there. So that's
really, you might say, the start. Then about, I
think, 62, and this you'd have to check with
George, bought the land down at Pirates Beach. And
that was really the first development time? Yeah.
The real development? Yeah. What precipitated
that? Because in 1962, Galveston was not exactly
what you call a booming. George saw the golden city
on the hill and had been building that golden city .
That's why. The way it was in the 1890s. That's an
old story. It's still there. It's still part of the
80s. Part. It's it. How do you build a building like
that in San Luis? Book of Return coming out.
Obviously I had to do it. the real estate business,
let's say, was in any way competitive with the oil
business, or that it was diverting energies or
anything? Not at that time. Then he bought the
Grogan Dockers, which I believe was 1964. And the
two of us went around financing it, which we had no
luck. But he financed it with an outfit here in
town, which just proved at much better rates and
terms He just proved what his damn persistence was
good for. Yeah. And the next thing was he bought
Pelican Island. His brother knew that the DeVoe
Company, I think it was DeVoe, owned it and had a big
tax gain. The Georgians said, look, they put that
$7 million in there, but they had that bridge. And
he said, well, look, why don't you take, now's the
time to take your tax loss again. So he talked them
into it. So now Pelican sort of came out. The
woodlands have come out. I mean, the timberlands
have come out. They've been paid $125, of which
only $40 was land. The rest was timber. And they
have paid for themselves over and over, sort of
like goddamn Toll Bridge. And Pelican paid for
itself. But they're loaded with debt that came
from elsewhere. The overhead at Woodlands was
beginning. The losses, et cetera. It all got
dumped over here, and now you can't find it, trace
it. Now, once, at the point where I saw he could get
it to be, it was really 1967, was the first evening I
had that he was out to build the city. Now, I'll tell
you one thing about the Timberlands, the 50,000
acres. He put those together all by himself, an
attorney from Vincent Elkins, and a forester who
was working on the road. Got it. The company was not
involved in any which way. It was all 273 damn
transactions he talks about. I'm scared. Yeah. So
once that started, I said, OK. And then I had to go
around to other places. Well, I'd just seen Zach
and Dolphin got broke. And George says, well, you
don't lose money and land just on developing it.
Yes. Who developed it?
So it was a constant. Now, Woodland, the only
positive or even negative thing I had to deal with
was the 50,000 bonds. I personally handled the
sale of dealing with underwriters by public debt
and doing it by phone. I did that, but once you get
past that. Oh, now, back on the recreational, I
worked up with the marketing people, and I had to
see if you could get it going better. In the women's
marketing? No, no, no, no. It had to be Galveston,
and Livingston, and up here. I brought in some
people from California, and worked with them.
Those are my two connections with it. Interview
over. Interview over. Well, let's talk about it.